Hey there welcome to the course.
I have a ton to say but first I just want to add please do not skip this section.
I know it's tempting to go ahead to installation or dive into the code that this course has multiple
starting points and this section will help you understand where you should start based off of your computer
you're using and also your experience level.
I know this intro stuff is not the most enthralling content ever so I have thrown in some adorable photos
of my cats.
Here's one.
Just look at those eyes.
Right.
So I'll introduce myself very quickly.
My name's colt.
I have some emojis here.
That's me as a developer me as a teacher.
I have cats.
I prefer dogs.
Sorry cats prefer dogs.
I live in San Francisco and music.
How unique.
I like music.
So this is me and one of my cats.
I've been teaching people how to code in all sorts of different languages for five plus years in person
at boot camp programs in the Bay Area and then online on platforms like you to me.
Ok enough about me let's talk about you.
So Python is a really broad topic and I decided to make this course not only as comprehensive as possible
but I want to make it open to as many different skill levels as possible.
Whether you're a complete programming newbie you've never written a line of code in your life or you've
written some other languages and you just want some help translating over to Python.
Or you have experience with Python already but you feel like you know it's not complete or you want
more practice with exercises.
This course can help you out.
Of course the experience you have will be significantly different depending on your skill level.
Can I address that in the exercises video later in this intro section.
And as a side note this course is not particularly focused around building web sites or data science
or automating things or machine learning or game development.
Anything like that.
It's a broad course but the goal is that you should be able to take this course and go on to learn any
of those topics that are built on top of Python.
The last thing we'll talk about in this video is a rough walkthrough of the curriculum.
We start off with the very basics of installing Python getting up and running with the command line
or power show.
Getting your editor going then we move on to the basics of the Python language.
We start with really simple stuff like variables.
Data Types a boolean and conditional logic.
We build a couple of versions of rock paper scissors and then we move on to things like loops and building
some simple games with loops.
Then we talk about data structures lists.
Dictionaries have a ton of exercises for each tuples and sets.
Then we get two functions which is a really important part of the course.
I've already talked about this in the promotional video but if you look at the function section it's
full of exercises.
It's hard to tell on the curriculum view here but each one of these little brackets symbols means it
indicates an exercise so you can see there's a ton of them in this section.
These are videos and then following it.
There's this entire section of exercises so there's a ton of exercises as we go.
Functions part 2.
We move on to there's a whole other problem set up for functions as well.
Then some trickier topics like lambdas and built in functions debugging and error handling.
How do we raise our own exceptions.
We talk about modules and this is the fun section we work with external libraries tools that other developers
have written to help us do some cool things.
We start working with HTP requests connecting with API as I did make this section optional.
If you have no interest in the web world you don't care about hype how Python talks to an API like Facebook
or something.
Then you can skip this.
It doesn't really come back up until the very end of the course.
In another optional section then we talk about two topics that are kind of notorious in Python generators
and decorators.
A lot of courses shy away from topics like this and I've done my best to make it as accessible as possible.
Lots of exercises as you can see.
Then we talk about OTOP object oriented programming.
Really big topic Opie's starts here and we finish up down here.
So there's a ton of content between the sections on object oriented programming.
We build a little application continuing down we talk about testing and test driven development.
There's a lot of different ways of if you're familiar with testing a lot of different ways of testing
in Python.
We cover a bunch of them then we talk about file I O.
So this is a fun topic.
How do we connect Python to files.
How do we save data to a file.
But more importantly how do we read in data from let's say some sort of CXXVI file containing crime
statistics or government data.
How would you read that and to analyze it using Python.
And then finally we get to my personal favorite topic which is web scraping.
If you're not familiar with scraping it's the idea of writing code that goes to a Web site that doesn't
have a publicly available API.
We crawl across hundreds of different web pages potentially or thousands and we extract data from those
Web sites.
So we build our own crawler our own spider using python that goes online and extracts book data from
an e-commerce Web site about hundreds of books Price's titles links that sort of thing and then it saves
them all in a file to be analyzed.
So the course covers a ton of material as you can see.
Each one of these sections almost all of them have five plus exercises.
Some of them have 20 exercises it's a lot.
And frankly it was more work to make those exercises to write all the code that goes into them all the
testing logic than it was for me to record.
Twenty something hours 25 hours of video or something like that.
So hopefully you enjoy having all those exercises at your disposal.
All right.
So that's the curriculum in the next video.
I'm going to answer a really important question which is why does this course cover Python 3.
How is it different than Python 2.
And why does it matter.
So that's next.